Added new kb article grid-kb-conditionally-hide-command-buttons (#2718)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-kb-conditionally-hide-command-buttons.md

---

> title: Conditionally Hiding Command Buttons in Grid for Blazor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Conditionally Hide Command Buttons in Blazor Grid
```

description: Learn how to conditionally show or hide command buttons in a Blazor Grid based on row data values.
type: how-to

> page_title: Dynamically Hiding Command Buttons in Blazor Grid Based on Row Values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: How to Dynamically Hide Command Buttons in Blazor Grid
```

slug: grid-kb-conditionally-hide-command-buttons
tags: grid,blazor,commandbutton,conditional,visibility,row
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1675338
---

## Description
In some scenarios, you might want to conditionally show or hide command buttons in a [Grid for Blazor](https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/grid/overview) based on the data of the current row. For instance, you may want to display a delete button only for items that meet certain criteria. This article demonstrates how to achieve this behavior by using the context of the command column.

This knowledge base article also answers the following questions:
- How can I hide a GridCommandButton based on a row value in Blazor?
- What is the way to conditionally display command buttons in a Telerik Blazor Grid?
- Can I dynamically control the visibility of command buttons in a Grid for Blazor?

## Solution
To conditionally show or hide command buttons in a Grid for Blazor, use the context parameter of the `GridCommandColumn` to access the current row's data. Based on this data, you can conditionally render the command button.

````RAZOR
@CustomCommandResult

> <TelerikGrid Data=@GridData EditMode="@GridEditMode.Inline" OnUpdate="@MyOnUpdateHandler"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData EditMode="@GridEditMode.Inline" OnUpdate="@HandleUpdate"
```

             Pageable="true" PageSize="15" Height="500px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.ID) Editable="false" Title="Employee ID" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.Name) Title="Employee Name" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.HireDate) Title="Hire Date" />
        <GridCommandColumn Context="dataItem">
            @{
                var item = (SampleData)dataItem;
            }
            <GridCommandButton Command="Edit" Icon="@SvgIcon.Pencil">Edit</GridCommandButton>

>             <GridCommandButton Command="Save" Icon="@SvgIcon.Save" ShowInEdit="true" OnClick="@CustomSaveOnClickHandler">Save</GridCommandButton>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <GridCommandButton Command="Save" Icon="@SvgIcon.Save" ShowInEdit="true" OnClick="@HandleCustomSave">Save</GridCommandButton>
```

            <GridCommandButton Command="Cancel" Icon="@SvgIcon.Cancel" ShowInEdit="true">Cancel</GridCommandButton>
            @if (item.ID % 2 == 0)
            {

>                 <GridCommandButton Command="MyOwnCommand" Icon="@SvgIcon.InfoCircle" ShowInEdit="false" OnClick="@MyCustomCommandOnClickHandler">My Command</GridCommandButton>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                <GridCommandButton Command="MyOwnCommand" Icon="@SvgIcon.InfoCircle" ShowInEdit="false" OnClick="@HandleCustomButtonClick">My Command</GridCommandButton>
```

            }
        </GridCommandColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    private List<SampleData> GridData { get; set; }
    private MarkupString CustomCommandResult;
    
    public class SampleData
    {
        public int ID { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public DateTime HireDate { get; set; }
    }

>     private async Task CustomSaveOnClickHandler(GridCommandEventArgs args)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    private async Task HandleCustomSave(GridCommandEventArgs args)
```
A good practice is the event handlers to start with a verb

    {
        SampleData theUpdatedItem = args.Item as SampleData;
    }

>     private async Task MyCustomCommandOnClickHandler(GridCommandEventArgs args)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    private async Task HandleCustomCommandButton(GridCommandEventArgs args)
```
